@nav_title = "FAQ"
@title = "Riseup's Encrypted Internet Proxy FAQ"
@summary = "Frequently Asked Questions and their Answers"

h2. What happened with the old RiseupVPN?

The main issue with the RiseupVPN system was that it was not user friendly, resulting in several people with massive headaches when they tried to set it up, or when trying to fix it when it didn't work. Encryption needs to be easy, not something  that is easy to screw up! We are switching to a new service powered by LEAP that comes with a brand new client that provides hassle-free configuration and a enchanced level of security on Linux and Android (with Windows and OSX in the works). We are calling this new service Riseup's EIP.

h2. What does EIP mean?

EIP stands for Encrypted Internet Proxy, some people might know it as a VPN. It is a tool that provides censorship circumvention, location anonymization and traffic encryption to activists around the globe. Using the Bitmask client, you will encrypt all your internet traffic and send it through riseup.net servers where it then goes to the public internet. Just like the old VPN does, but with an easy and accessible client.

This is an integral part of the Riseup's next generation of anti-surveillance services powered by the LEAP Encryption Access Project.

h2. What's LEAP?

LEAP is a project focused to make encryption easy to use and widely avaiable but not compromissing it's security. Adapting existing technologies, LEAP creates tools that let you excercise the right to digitally whisper, as a fundamental precondition for a free society.

h2. What's the status of the Riseup's EIP?

We are currently in a beta period, this means we are looking for possible issues so we can fix them! Can you give us a hand with that? Because it is a beta, there are a couple things you need to know:
    
    * You will not be able to use your riseup account username during this period. Please create a new one. Later you will be able to migrate your current account to a LEAP powered one.
    * You need to suscribe to a low volume mailing list to receive important news about the service, as we will notify you of changes important changes you need to take care. Please do at https://lists.riseup.net/riseup-leap-beta

h2. What systems are supported?

The Bitmask client runs on linux (as a package on Debian and Ubuntu and as a bundle for other distributions), Mac OSX and Android. Please check the Setup intructions for those systems

h2. Where do I send the bugs I found?

Please file an issue under your account at https://black.riseup.net

h2. Can I invite all my friends to use Riseup's EIP Beta?

We are running a semi-closed beta period to check things out, find issues and to solve them. You are part of a special secret group, please keep it that way :)
