@title = 'Digital Millennium Copyright Act Policy'

h2. Introduction

This policy is intended to implement the procedures set forth in 17 U.S.C. Section 512 and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act ("DMCA") for the reporting of alleged copyright infringement. It is the policy of Riseup Networks ("riseup.net") to respect the legitimate rights of copyright owners, their agents, and representatives. Users of any part of riseup.net's computing system are required to respect the legal protections provided by applicable copyright law.

Please see the "Chilling Effects website":https://www.chillingeffects.org/dmca512 for more information on the DMCA.

h2. Designated Agent

Riseup.net's Designated Agent to receive notification of alleged infringement under the DMCA is:

<code>
    Alan Korn
    Law Office of Alan Korn
    1840 Woolsey Street
    Berkeley, CA 94703
    Ph. (510)548-7300
    Fax (510)540-4821
    aakorn@igc.org
</code>

Upon receipt of proper notification of claimed infringement, riseup.net will follow the procedures outlined herein and in the DMCA.

h2. Complaint Notice Procedures for Copyright Owners

The following elements must be included in your copyright infringement notice:

* An electronic or physical signature of the copyright owner or a person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed.
* Identification of the copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed, or if multiple copyrighted works at a single online site are covered by a single notice, a representative list of such works at that site.
* Identification of the material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity and that is to be removed or access to which is to be disabled, and information reasonably sufficient to permit riseup.net to locate the material.
* Information reasonably sufficient to permit riseup.net to contact the complaining party, such as an address, telephone number, and, if available, an electronic mail address at which the complaining party may be contacted.
* A statement that the complaining party has a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law.
* A statement that the information in the notice is accurate, and under penalty of perjury, that the complaining party is authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed.

Failure to include all of the above information may result in a delay of the processing of the DCMA notification.

h2. Notice and Takedown Procedure

It is expected that all users of any part of riseup.net's system will comply with applicable copyright laws. However, if riseup.net receives proper notification of claimed copyright infringement it will respond expeditiously by removing, or disabling access to, the material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity. riseup.net will comply with the appropriate provisions of the DMCA in the event a counter notification is received.

h2. Repeat Infringers

Under appropriate circumstances, riseup.net may, in its discretion, terminate authorization of users of its system or network who are repeat infringers.

h2. Accommodation of Standard Technical Measures

It is riseup.net's policy to accommodate and not interfere with standard technical measures it determines are reasonable under the circumstances, i.e., technical measures that are used by copyright owners to identify or protect copyrighted works.
